PETE LEPAGE: Displaying
relative time values
is now part of the Intl.
API.
You can specify which
side of the text underline
should appear on for text
that flows vertically
and fewer surprises.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 71.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Many web apps use phrases
like yesterday, in two days,
or an hour ago to indicate
when something happened
or is going to happen instead
of displaying the full date
and time.
Displaying relative times
has become so common
that most date/time libraries
provide localized functions
to handle this for us.
In fact, with almost
every web app I build,
moment.js is one of the first
libraries I add expressly
for this purpose.
Chrome 71 introduces
Intl.RelativeTimeFormat,
which shifts the work
to the JavaScript engine
and enables localized
formatting of relative times.
This can give us a
small performance boost
and means we only need those
libraries as a polyfill
when the browser doesn't
support the new APIs yet.
Using it is simple.
Create a new instance and
specify the locale, then just
call format with
the relative time.
Check out Matthias's
updates post linked below.
When Chinese or Japanese text
is displayed in a vertical flow,
browsers are inconsistent with
where the underline is placed.
It may be on the
left or on the right.
In Chrome 71, the text
underline position property
now accepts left or right
as part of the CSS3 text
decoration spec.
The CSS3 text decoration spec
adds several new properties
that allow you to specify
things like what kind of line
to use, the style, the
color, and position.
We've all been surprised
when we hit a site
and suddenly it
starts talking to us.
AutoPlay policies prevent
sites from automatically
playing audio.
These sites use the speech
synthesis API instead.
Starting in Chrome 71,
the speech synthesis API
now requires some kind of
user activation on the page
before it'll work.
This brings it in line with
other AutoPlay policies.
If you try and use it
before the user has
interacted with the page,
it will fire an error.
There's nothing worse
than going to a site
and having it surprise
you and the coworkers
sitting around you.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 71
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
The element that requests
fullscreen method
can now be customized
on Android.
The default credential mode
for module script requests
has changed from
omit to same origin.
And bringing Chrome in line
with the Shadow Dom V1 spec,
Chrome 71 now calculates
the specificity
for host, host context,
and slotted elements.
If you didn't make it to Chrome
Dev Summit, or maybe you did,
but you didn't
see all the talks,
check out the Chrome
Dev Summit 2018 playlist
on our YouTube channel.
Ewa and Phil went into
some neat techniques
for using service workers.
Mariko and Jake talked
about how they built Swoosh.
Katie and Houssein covered
some great techniques
to maximize the
performance of your site.
And of course, there
are plenty more.
So check them out.
Oh, and click that
subscription button.
You'll get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
72 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.